OSI
Layer 7—User ID/Password sniffing
Password sniffing is a technique for harvesting passwords that involves monitoring traffic on a network to pull out information. 

Layer 6—Phishing, SSL/TLS session sniffing
Phishing is the fraudulent practice of sending emails purporting to be from reputable companies to induce individuals to reveal personal information, such as passwords and credit card numbers.
SSL/TLS Session Sniffing is when a TLS/SSL termination proxy acts as a MitM proxy which hijacks the secure SSL connection.

Layer 5—Hijacking Telnet & FTP Sniffing
Telnet session hijack occurs when an attacker intercepts the communication channel after a client has authenticated, itself to the server
FTP sniffing allows Anyone who connects to your network capture network traffic, sniff out your FTP password, and then access/steal your files

Layer 4—Reconnaissance, DoS/DDoS, TCP Session Sniffing/ Port Sniffing
Reconnaissance by itself is not an attack; however, this could cause a serious security threat by allowing the weaknesses of the network or network resources to be made known to the attacker.
DoS (DDoS) attack is an explicit attack to prevent legitimate users from accessing network and network services. 
TCP Session Sniffing is utilizing a software sniffing program to view the TCP handshake. This can lead to TCP hijacking. 
Port Sniffing provides a view into the type of messages transmitted throughout a network. A sniffing program is a good tool for reviewing data that is transferred in and out of an organization.

Layer 3—Man in the Middle (MITM), Port Sniffing, IP Sniffing
Man in the middle (MITM) is when a perpetrator positions themself in a conversation between a user and an application—either to eavesdrop or to impersonate one of the parties, making it appear as if a normal exchange of information is underway.
Port Sniffing provides a view into the type of messages transmitted throughout a network. A sniffing program is a good tool for reviewing data that is transferred in and out of an organization.

Layer 2—Spoofing MAC/ ARP Sniffing
MAC spoofing is a technique for changing a factory-assigned Media Access Control (MAC) address of a network interface on a networked device.
ARP Sniffing  An ARP spoofing, also known as ARP poisoning, is a Man in the Middle (MitM) attack that allows attackers to intercept communication between network devices.

Layer 1-- Sniffing
Sniffing on layer 1 is when Packet capture programs require the NIC to be set to "promiscuous mode," where the NIC will accept any packet regardless of the MAC address. 
