Session vulnerabilities:

weak session tokens (not enough entropy)
Weak session IDs can expose your users to having their session hijacked. If your session IDs are picked from a small range of values, an attacker only needs to probe randomly chosen session IDs until they find a match.

predictable sessions (username in session token that can be replaced w/ someone else’s username)

Session prediction, also called credential/session prediction, is a method of surreptitiously obtaining data (called a session ID) about an authorized visitor to a Web site. The session ID is normally stored within a cookie or URL. Session IDs enables user tracking on a Web site.

where is the session stored (in header? in cookie?)
A session is a global variable stored on the server. Each session is assigned a unique id which is used to retrieve stored values. Whenever a session is created, a cookie containing the unique session id is stored on the user's computer and returned with every request to the server.

secure cookie flags
The Secure flag is used to declare that the cookie may only be transmitted using a secure connection (SSL/HTTPS). If this cookie is set, the browser will never send the cookie if the connection is HTTP. This flag prevents cookie theft via man-in-the-middle attacks.

CSRF double-submit protection

To enhance the security of this solution, include the token in an encrypted cookie - other than the authentication cookie (since they are often shared within subdomains) - and then at the server-side match it (after decrypting the encrypted cookie) with the token in hidden form field or parameter/header for AJAX calls. This works because a sub domain has no way to over-write a properly crafted encrypted cookie without the necessary information such as encryption key.

A simpler alternative to an encrypted cookie is to HMAC the token with a secret key known only by the server and place this value in a cookie. This is like an encrypted cookie (both require knowledge only the server holds) but is less computationally intensive than encrypting and decrypting the cookie. Whether encryption or a HMAC is used, an attacker won't be able to recreate the cookie value from the plain token without knowledge of the server secrets.

CSRF embedded token protection

A CSRF token is a unique, secret, unpredictable value that is generated by the server-side application and transmitted to the client in such a way that it is included in a subsequent HTTP request made by the client. When the later request is made, the server-side application validates that the request includes the expected token and rejects the request if the token is missing or invalid. 

CSRF tokens can prevent CSRF attacks by making it impossible for an attacker to construct a fully valid HTTP request suitable for feeding to a victim user. Since the attacker cannot determine or predict the value of a user's CSRF token, they cannot construct a request with all the parameters that are necessary for the application to honor the request. 
